In the previous video, we have done connecting
ubuntu server with router inside gns3.
Next in this video, we are going to
configure ssh on the router 1 and router 2,
so we can remote router 1 and router 2 from ubuntu.
Let’s start with router 1. First, we need
to change the domain name, ip doman-name
and then the domain, let’s say here I use
mydomain.local, you are free to use anything.
Next, let’s generate a key for
ssh, crypto key generate rsa,
here for the modulus by default is 512,
but the best practice is to use 1024.
Next let’s create username and password,
username and then the username,
let’s say here I create username cisco, and then privilege
15, if we configure privilege to 15 like this,
when this user login, the user will directly
go to privilege mode, not user mode.
And then secret, here we need to put the
password, let’s say the password is also cisco.
Last let’s configure the vty.
Line vty 0 15, and then login local.
Okay now we have done configuring ssh on router 1.
Let’s try to ssh from ubuntu server to router 1,
ssh cisco@10.10.10.1, this
is the ip address of router 1.
Okay here we get an error,
this is because the router
is to old, so the key between ubuntu
server and router is not match.
To solve this problem, we need to doing
some configuration on the ubuntu server.
nano .ssh/config
Here we need to add some configuration,
Host and then the ip address of
the router. Which is 10.10.10.1
Here we can Tab, and then here
we need to type KexAlgorithms
and then + and then the error message that we get.
You can just type the configuration like this.
Okay we have done here, let’s
save it, ctrl + x , y, enter.
Let’s ssh to router 1 again, okay we
get an error unsupported algorithms.
I think we do a mistake in the configuration.
Let’s edit the file again, here we can
put # to comment the configuration,
so now this configuration is not
used. Save it, ctrl + x, y, enter.
Let’s ssh again,
Okay here we can see the error
message, let’s write this
so we can see the error message
when configuring on ubuntu server,
Now let’s configure ubuntu
server again, nano .ssh/config,
Uncomment this,
And then here we missing I in the algorithms.
Save it, ctrl + x, y, enter.
Now let’s ssh to the router 1 again, okay
here we can see that we get another error,
no matching cipher found, their offer
aes128, 3des, aes192, or aes256.
So we need to add a configuration again, let’s
say we will use the last one, which is aes256-cbc.
Nano .ssh/config, let’s add the
configuration here, cipher +aes256-cbc.
Save it, ctrl + x, y, enter.
Let’s try to ssh to router 1 again, okay here
we can see that we don’t get an error anymore.
Yes, let’s type the password and here we
are success to remote router 1 using ssh.
To exit from router 1, just type exit.
Okay now we have done configuring ssh on
router 1, next let’s configure ssh on router 2.
First let’s configure the domain name,
Ip domain-name and then the domain,
let’s say I use mydomain.local.
Next, let’s create the key, crypto key
generate rsa, for the modulus, I use 1024.
Next let’s create the username, username
cisco privilege 15 secret cisco.
Last, let’s configure vty,
line vty 0 15. Login local,
Okay we have done configuring ssh on router 2,
Let’s try to remote the router 2 from
ubuntu server, ssh cisco@10.10.10.2,
Okay here we get an error like in the router 1.
Let’s configure on ubuntu again, here we
can add the configuration for router 2,
the configuration will be same as router 1,
the only differences is in the host.
But if we have many router,
absolutely this is not effective if we need to
add the configuration for each router.
The solution is, we can change the ip
address become stars. This is means all host.
Save it, ctrl + x, y, enter.
Now let’s try to ssh to router 2
again, okay we are success here.
Okay, now we have done configuring ssh on router 1
and router 2, and now we are success
remote the router from ubuntu server.
I think enough for this video
Thank you for watching and see you on the next video.